This is Jockel Podcast number 103 with echo Charles and me, Jockel Willink.
Good evening echo.
Good evening.
Whilst lying at Windchester, young as I was in the profession, I was picked out amongst
others to perform a piece of duty that, for many years afterwards, remain deeply
impressed upon my mind and gave me the first impression of the stern duties of a soldier's
life.
A private of the 70th Regiment had deserted from that corps, and afterwards, enlisted
into several other regiments.
Indeed, I was told at the time that 16 different times he had received the bounty and
then stolen off.
Being however, caught at last he was brought to trial at Portsmouth and sentenced by
General Court Marshall to be shot.
As the execution would be a good hint to us, youngins, there were four lads picked
out of our corps to assist in this piece of duty, myself being one of the number chosen.
Besides these men, four soldiers from three other regiments were ordered on the firing
party, making 16 at all.
The place of execution was Portsdown Hill and the different regiments assembled must have
composed a force of about 15,000 men having been assembled from the Isle of White, from
Chai Sester, Gauceport and other places.
The site was very imposing and appeared to make a deep impression on all there.
As for myself, I felt that I would have given a good round sum, had I possessed it to have
been in any other situation rather than the one, rather than the one which I now found
myself.
And when I looked into the faces of my companions, I saw by the pallor and exited, depicted
in each countenance, the reflection of my own feelings.
And all was ready, we removed to the front and the culprit was brought out.
He made a short speech to the parade, acknowledging the justice of his sentence and that drinking
an evil company had brought the punishment upon him.
He behaved himself firmly and well and did not seem to flinch at all.
After being blindfolded, he was desired to kneel down behind a coffin which was placed
on the ground and the drum major of the depot giving us an expressive glance.
We immediately commenced to loading.
This was done in the deepest silence and the next moment we were primed in ready.
It was then a dreadful pause for a few moments and the drum major again looking towards
us, gave us the signal agreed upon before, a flourish of his cane.
And we leveled and fired.
We had been previously strictly enjoying to be steady and take good aim and the poor fellow
pierced by several balls, fell heavily upon his back.
As he lay with his arms, pinion to his sides, I observed that his hands waved for a few
moments, like the fins on a fish, when in the agonies of death.
The drum major also observed the movement and making another signal for of our party immediately
stepped up to the post-rate body and placing the muzzles of their pieces to the head, fired
and put him out of his misery.
The different regiments then fell back by companies and the word being given to March
past in slow time.
When each company came in line with the body, the word was given to Mark time and then
eyes left in order that we all might observe the terrible example.
We then moved onwards and marched from the ground to our different quarters.
And that is from a book called Recollections of Rifleman Harris, who was an enlisted soldier
for the British Army during the Napoleonic Wars and that was his welcome to the Army.
He had been in for about three weeks of service when he had to stand and execute a fellow
soldier for basically being drunk and disorderly, not doing what he was supposed to do.
Essentially, he was being executed for being a human being.
That was the introduction to military service for Rifleman Harris.
Rifleman Harris's full name was Benjamin Randall Harris.
He enlisted in 1803.
He fought all over Europe in the peninsula war, which posed bourbon Spain, the kingdom of Portugal
and the British Empire against Napoleon's French Empire and boat-apartists Spain.
And also the Duchy of Warsaw.
This is a war where they have daggers and swords and bayonets and mounted cavalry charges.
They have cannons and they used a lot of muzzle loading rifles, which a skilled rifleman
could load and fire about three times per minute, accurate out to about 200 yards.
Very different from the weapons that we have now, which can fire three rounds in a second.
And our very accurate out to 800 yards, a thousand yards and some sniper weapons way further
than that.
But even though these weapons are different from the weapons we see in modern warfare,
as always in the end, it is men.
It is human beings on the battlefield, bleeding, sweating, starving, suffering, killing,
and being killed.
This is a little bit more about riflemen, Harris, going back to the book.
My father was a shepherd and I was a sheep boy from my earliest youth.
Indeed as soon as almost I could run, I began helping my father to look after the sheep
on the downs of blanford in Dorsetcher, where I was born.
Whilst I continued to tend the flocks and herds under my charge, and occasionally in the
long winter nights, I learned the art of making shoes.
I grew a hearty little chap and was one fine day in the year of 1802, drawn as a soldier
for the army of reserve.
Thus without troubling myself much about the change, which was about to take place in
the quiet of my routine days, I was drafted into the 66th regiment of foot.
It did goodbye to my shepherd companions and was obliged to leave my father without
an assistant to collect his flocks.
Just as he was beginning more than ever to require one.
Nay indeed, I may say to want tending and looking after himself, for old age and infirmary,
we're coming on him.
His hair was growing white as the sleet of our downs and his countenance becoming as
furrowed as the plowed fields around.
However, as I had no choice in the matter, it was quite as well that I did not grieve over
my fate.
My father tried hard to buy me off and would have persuaded the sergeant of the 66th
that I was of no use as a soldier, from having maimed my right hand by breaking the four
finger when I was a child.
The sergeant, however, said I was just the sort of little chap he wanted.
And off he went, carrying me amongst a batch of recruits he had collected away with him.
She purter.
Dad's getting old, army comes and gets you.
That's the way it works.
England, 1802.
Now he travels around a little bit and eventually ends up in Dublin.
Here we go back to the book, whilst in Dublin, I one day saw a core of the 95th rifles and
fell so in love with their smart, dashing and devil-may care appearance that nothing would
serve me until I was a rifleman myself.
So on arriving at Castle One Day and falling in with the recruiting party of that regiment
I volunteered into the second battalion.
This recruiting party were all Irishmen.
And I had been sent over from England to collect amongst others men from the Irish militia
and were just about to return to England.
I think they were as reckless and devil-may care, a set of men I'd ever been beheld either
before or since.
So these riflemen, I would say from what I read about them, they're almost like a special
ops unit and one big difference is they're wearing red jackets like the Brits were
wear at this time.
They wore green.
So they were a little bit different and they had more accurate rifles and they would fight.
They would do what they called skirmishing which is fundamentally cover-move.
They'd shoot and they'd maneuver and they'd act like little special operations troops out
there.
Of course it's interesting to me when I hear this guy talking about the first time he saw
someone that looked a little bit like a special operations troop.
He said, well he actually says, I fell in love with it.
That's very much how I felt as I was growing up the more I saw the special ops.
He didn't even need to be special ops for me.
It was just someone in the military.
Then he was already in the military, so now he's looking for the next thing.
What's the next thing going to be?
And here he ends up as a rifleman.
So he's now a rifleman.
He joins, he moves over to their regiment and here we go back to the book.
The next day we marched for Ashford and Kent where I joined the 95th rifles and about six
months after my joining four companies of the second battalion were ordered on the expedition
to Denmark.
We embarked at deal and sailing for hostile shores landed on a little place called I think
Scarlet Island.
The expedition consisted of about 30,000 men.
And at the moment of our getting on shore, the whole force set up one simultaneous and
tremendous cheer, a sound I cannot describe, it seemed so inspiring.
This indeed was the first time of my hearing the style in which our men give tongue when
they get near the enemy.
The laughter words my ears became pretty well accustomed to such sounds.
As soon as we got on shore, the rifles were pushed forward and we said the rifles he's
talking about his guys.
The rifles were pushed forward as the advance in chain order through some thick woods
of fur.
And when we had cleared these woods and approached Copenhagen centuries were posted on the
roads and openings leading toward the town in order to intercept all commerce and prevent
all supplies.
Such posts were occupied for about three days and nights whilst the town was being fired
upon by our shipping.
I rather think this was the first time of the Kongrive rockets being brought into play
and they rushed through the air in the dark.
They appeared so like so many fiery serpents creating I should think terrible dismay among
the besieged the Kongrive rockets.
They basically looked like giant bottle rockets in a way.
And they got at this time they were getting their range out to 1500 2000 meters.
So it was a pretty crazy weapon.
And I can tell you rockets in this day and age have become fairly accurate but in those
days probably about as accurate as a bottle rocket is my guess.
Back to the book as the main army came up we advanced and got as near under the walls
of the place as we could without being endangered by the fire from our own shipping.
So what's happening right there is cover move.
The shipping is bombarding and these guys are advancing as close as they can where they
are not going to get killed by their own fire from the ships.
We now received orders ourselves to commence firing and the rattling of the guns I
shall not easily forget.
I felt so much exhilarated that I could hardly keep back and was checked by the commander
of the company who called me by my name to keep my place.
Throughout this time my front rank man, a tall fellow named Jack Johnson, showed a disposition
as though the firing had a effect on him the reverse of what it had on many others of the
company.
For he seemed inclined to hang back and once or twice turned around in my face.
I was a rear rank man and porting my peace in the excitement of the moment.
I score that if he did not keep his ground I would shoot him dead on the spot.
So that he found it he would go on so that he found it would be quite as dangerous for him
to return as to go on.
I feel sorry to record the warmth of courage of this man but I do so with the less pain
it gives me the opportunity of saying that during my many years of arduous service it
is the only instance I remember of a British soldier endeavoring to hold back when his comrades
were moving forward.
Indeed Johnson was never held again an estimation among the rifle corps.
For the story got wind that I had threatened to shoot him for cowardice in the field and
Lieutenant Cox mentioned to the Colonel that he'd overheard my doing so and such was the
contempt the man was held in by the rifles that he was soon afterwards removed.
There you go.
First time under fire it's interesting how rifle man Harris first time under fire he wants
to get after him.
He is ready to charge and only one guy out of the whole crew is looking like he's going
to hold back and they talk about reputation here and that's definitely something that
is when you get to this heel teams as you're a new guy someone tells you they'll say
your reputation is everything and it's totally true and it's the same in any military organization
what your reputation is because in the military you think ranks all important right but
the reality is there's something that completely trumps rank and that's reputation.
And if you're I mean I always talk about the fact that relationships are more important
than chain of command but you're not going to have a good relationship with people if you
don't have a good reputation it's not happening.
So make sense.
Same thing back in 1803.
Back to the book.
Whilst in Denmark we led a tolerably active life the rifles being continually on the alert ordered
heither today and counter-mandered the next occasionally also we had some pleasant adventures
among the blue eyed Danish lasses for the rifles were always terrible fellows in that
way.
I think that doesn't need too much explanation.
They I'll say this as I always say I have to fast forward through this book I'm not
reading the entire book even though the entire book is awesome in this point this point
here they're embarking for Portugal we have another another campaign to go on back to
the book I wish I could picture the splendid sight of the shipping in the downs at the time
we embarked with about 20,000 men those were times which are so which the soldiers of our
own more peaceful days have little conception of.
So this book was written before World War I and really this was the last big war is the
wars that he went through the Napoleonic wars so he's kind of he's kind of saying you
don't even know if this is like anymore you don't know what it's like.
You don't know if the the the the soldiers of our own more peaceful days have little conception
of what it's like to embark 20,000 troops to get ready to go get some.
To the book we sailed majestically out of the cove of cork for hostile shore where we
would safely arrived and disembarked at Mondego Bay.
The rifles were first out of the vessels for we were indeed always in front of the
advance and always in the rear in retreat like the Kentish men of old we claim the post of
honor in the field I try to figure out what that.
The Kentish men Kentish obviously a place and and the as far as the best I could figure
out was that the people in Kent stood up hardcore against the Norman invasion and I think
that's what that reference is to.
I'm sure someone will correct me and I hope somebody does.
Back to the book being immediately pushed forward up the country and advance the main body
many of us in this hot climate very soon began to find out the misery of the frightful
load we were condemned to march and fight under with a burning son above our heads and
our feet sinking every step into the hot sand.
The weight of the weight I myself toiled under was tremendous and I often wonder at the
strength I possessed at this period that which enabled me to endure it.
For indeed I'm convinced that many of our infantry sank and died under the weight of
their nap sacks alone.
For my own part being a handicraft, a handicraft I marched under the weight sufficient to
impede the free motions of a donkey.
For besides my well-filled kit there was a great coat rolled on its top my blanket and
camp kettle my haversack stuffed full of leather for repairing the men's shoes together
with a hammer and other tools.
Ship biscuit and beef for three days.
I also carried my canteen filled with water my hatchet and rifle and 80 rounds of ball
cartridge in my pouch.
This last except the beef and biscuit being the best thing I owned and which I always
gave the enemy the benefit of when the opportunity offered.
It's interesting he knew how to work on shoes and so he carries stuff to repair shoes
in the field.
Think about that that's just a lost art isn't it?
Think about where you are in the field when you have to march 15 miles a day and you
have no shoes if there's someone that can fix your shoes.
That's a godsend.
Back to the book the next day we again advanced and being in a state of the utmost anxiety
to come up along the French neither the heat of the burning sun, long miles or heavy
nap sacks were able to diminish our arguer.
Indeed I often look back with wonder at the light-hearted style, the jolety and the reckless
indifference with which men who were so destined and short time to fall hurried onwards
toward the field of strife, seemingly without a thought of anything but the sheer love
of meeting the foe and the excitement of battle.
You wrote this book 20 something years after this happened after this experience.
I want to say he wrote it in 1938 maybe is when it came out and you can see that so my
point in saying that is that looking back he knows because he's going to go through hell.
He's going to go through hardcore combat but even knowing how horrible combat is he still
looks back and is amazed at how they were ready to go.
Going back to the book the 29th Regiment received so terrible a fire that I saw the right
wing almost annihilated and the Colonel I think his name was Lennox Lace sprawling amongst
the rest.
We had caught ourselves in it pretty hamptomly for there was no cover for us and we were
rather too near.
The living skirmishers were laying beside heaps of their own dead but still we had our
own till the battalion regiments come up.
Fire and retire is a very good sound but the rifles were not overfond of such notes.
We never performed that maneuver except when it was made pretty plain to us that it was
quite necessary.
The 29th however had got their fairing hair at this time and the shock of that fire seemed
to stagger the whole line and make them recoil.
At the moment a little confusion appeared in the ranks I thought.
Lord Hill was near at hand and saw it and I observed him come galloping up.
He put himself at the head of the regimen and restored them to order in a moment there's
some leadership just full on leadership and action.
So there's also fire and retire what that means is cover move.
So you have some people shooting and some people falling back that's how they retreat
and they use that whenever they have to retreat you'll hear that.
I don't know if I did this made this clear enough but it's a bugle.
It's a bugle signal so the bugle would play some certain number of notes or some pattern
of notes and everyone would know that means fire and retire.
Now we get that broad that broad plan out to everyone at once which is instead of advancing
which is what we were doing now we're going to retreat and as soon as you get everyone
that information now little elements can start to make it happen that's decentralized
command but you have to have good communications in order for that to work and what you
need to communicate is the broad plan and that's what they get done with a nice little
bugle signal back to the book pouring a regular sharp fire upon the enemy he gulred
them in return and remaining with the 29th until he brought them to the charge quickly
sent the foe in the right about.
It seemed to me that few men could have conducted the business with more coolness and
quietude of manner under such a storm of balls as he was exposed to.
Indeed I have never forgotten him from that day.
So it's important to also recognize that you have a group of men that are about to fall
apart and there's confusion and one guy I talk about this all the time one guy steps up
takes ownership of the situation leads and it changes the entire outcome of the battle.
Think about that one person you got thousand men versus a thousand men one person makes
the difference.
So if you're in a leadership position think about that think about what you're doing.
Are you leading?
Are you stepping up?
Are you galloping up on a horse and setting things right?
Hmm.
Collector, do you need to be doing it?
Back to the book, at the time I was remarking these matters loading and firing as I lay.
Another circumstance divided my attention for a while and made me forget even the
gallant conduct of general hill.
A man near me uttered a scream of agony and looking from the 29th who were on my right to
the left once the screech had come.
I saw one of our sergeants named Frazier sitting in a doubled up position and swaying
backwards and forwards as though he had got a terrible pain in his bowels.
He continued to make such complaint that I arose and went to him for he was rather a
crony of mine.
Oh, Harris said he as I took him in my arms.
I shall die.
The agony is so great that I cannot bear it.
It was indeed dreadful to look upon him.
The froth came from his mouth and the perspiration poured from his face.
Think heaven.
He was soon out of pain and laying him down I returned to my place.
Poor fellow, he suffered more for a short time that he was dying than any man I think
I ever saw in the same circumstances.
I had the courtesy to return and look at him after the battle.
The musket ball I found had taken him sideways and gone through both groins.
Within about a half an hour after this, I left sergeant Frazier and indeed for the time
had as completely forgotten him as if he had died a hundred years back.
The sight of so much bloodshed around will not suffer the mind to dwell long in any particular
casualty.
Even though it happened to one's dearest friends.
There was no time either to think for all was action with us rifles just at this moment.
And the barrel of my piece was so hot from continual firing that I could hardly bear to
touch it.
It was obliged to grasp the stock beneath the iron as I continued to blaze away.
Doesn't even have time to think about it.
James Panton was another crony of mine, a gallant fellow.
He had pushed himself in front of me and was checked by one of our officers, rat for
his rashness.
He'd be back you, Panton.
The lieutenant said to him more than once, but Panton was to be restrained.
But Panton was not to be restrained by anything but a bullet went in action.
This time he got one, which striking him in the thigh I suppose hit an artery for he died
quickly.
The Frenchman's balls were flying very wickedly at that moment and I crept up to Panton
and took shelter by lying behind and making a rest for my rifle of his dead body.
It strikes me that I revenge his death by the assistance of his carcass.
At any rate I tried my best to hit his enemies hard.
There were two small buildings to our front and the French having managed to get into
them annoyed as much from that quarter.
A small rise in the ground closed before these houses also favored them.
And our men were being handled very severely in consequence.
They became angry and wouldn't stand it any longer.
One of the skirmishers jumping off, rushed forward, crying over boys over over.
When he instantly went instantly, the whole line responded to the cry over over over
they ran along the grass like wildfire, then dashed at the rise, fixing their sword
bayonets as they ran.
The French light bobs could not stand the sight but turned about and fled and getting
possession of their ground we were soon inside the buildings.
After the battle was over I stepped across the other house.
I have mentioned in order to see what was going on there.
For the one I remained in was now pretty well filled with the wounded, both French and
English who had managed to get there for a little shelter.
Two or three surgeons also had arrived at this house and were busy engaged in giving
their assistance to the wounded.
Now also here lying as thickly as in the building which I had left.
But what struck me the most.
But what struck me the most forcibly was that from the circumstance of some wine butts having
been left in the apartment and having their engagement been perforated, having in the
engagement been perforated by bullets and otherwise broken, the red wine had escaped most
plentifully and ran down upon the earth and floor where the wounded were lying so that
many of them were soaked in the wine with which their blood was minkled.
I hate to even think about the medical care that these guys are getting and the medical
care that we had in Iraq was unbelievable.
Not only from the speed that you would get assistance but also the quality of care that
you would get on in the field from our own medics and how quickly they would get you
and then get you take care of and then get you evacuated to a full medical facility.
And that actually changed during my time in the teams.
For instance the biggest change.
When I first got in the teams what we were taught was if someone got shot you immediately
give them an IV meaning a bag of fluid because they're bleeding you got to replace that.
And now they don't do that automatically because your body has its own mechanisms when
it loses blood to stop the bleeding.
It pulls back in the arteries and veins and it constricts them and it cloths the blood that's
there and so when you give someone an IV the body thinks I don't need to do that so it
opens up the arteries and opens up the veins it doesn't constrict anything it doesn't
get cloths slower.
So there's like one example and that's during my time so that's the last 25 years
that that changed to stay in place.
So now you go back you know a hundred and two hundred years it's totally different and
they'll talk more about that.
The basic the basic plan was if you get shot in a limb you're losing the limb that's
basically what's going on just amputations.
And nowadays they do an incredible job of saving limbs if they can be saved they save
them I mean they do an incredible job.
All right back to the book it was on the 15th of August when we first came up with
the French and their skirmishers immediately commenced operations by raining a shower
of balls upon us as we advanced which we returned without delay and I haven't said
this yet but the reason they're saying balls and said around is because these guys are
shooting balls with you round balls of lead and at this point there was some rifling
head started to come about but what they basically just consider everything to be a ball
of lead and that's why they're not accurate that's why they're only accurate out to 200
meters because they're not rifled like we have the tight rifling spinning bullets
today.
Back to the book the first man that was hit was Lieutenant Bunbury.
He fell pierced through the head with a musket ball and died almost immediately.
I thought I never heard such a tremendous noise as the firing made on the occasion and
the men on both sides of me I would could occasionally observe we're falling fast.
I do not pretend to give a description of this or any other battle I have been present
at.
All I can do is tell the things which happened immediately around me and that I think is as
much as a private soldier can be expected to do.
Soon afterwards the firing commenced and we had to take we had advanced pretty close
upon the enemy.
Taking advantage of whatever cover I could find I threw myself behind a small bank where
I lay so secure that although the Frenchman's bullets fell pretty thickly around I was
enabled to knock several over without being dislodged.
In fact I fired away every round I had in my pouch while slaying in this spot.
At length after a sharp contest we forced them to give ground and following them up drove
them from their position in the heights and hung up their skirts until they made another
stand and then the game began again.
The rifles indeed fought well this day and we lost many men.
They seemed in high spirits and delighted at having driven the enemy before them.
The most impressive coach was by my side loading and firing very industriously about this
period of the day.
Firsting with heat and action he lifted his canteen to his mouth, here's to you old boy.
He said as he took a poll at its contents.
As he did so a bullet went through the canteen and perforated his brain killing him in
a moment.
Another man fell close to him almost immediately struck by a ball in the thigh.
I saw a man named Simon struck full in the face by a round shot and he came to the ground
a headless trunk.
When the role was called after the battle the females who missed their husbands came along
the front of the line to inquire of the survivors whether they knew anything about them.
The wives could travel with the soldiers and again it just seems crazy to me right now but
that's the way they did it.
Not all of them but if they made that decision I guess as a family to stick together they
would get right on board the boats and they'd march in the book they didn't want
to carry the weight but they'd march alongside and go from place to place and when the
battles about to take place they'd hang back and then you have the situation once the
battles over that I'm talking about right now.
Amongst other names I heard that of Coach Ann called in a female voice without being
replied to.
The name struck me and I observed the poor woman who had called it as she said stopping
sobbing before us and apparently afraid to make further inquiries about her husband.
Oh man had answered to his name or had any given account to give of his fate.
I myself had observed him fall as related before while drinking from his canteen but as
I looked at the poor sobbing creature before me I felt unable to tell her of his death.
That length capped in leech observed her and called out to the company does any man know
what has happened to Coach Ann.
If so let him speak out at once upon this order I immediately related what I had seen and
told the man of his death.
After a while this coat misses Coach Ann appeared anxious to seek the spot where husband
fell and in the hope of still finding him alive asked me to accompany her over the field.
She trusted notwithstanding what I had told her to find him yet alive.
Do you think you could find it said captain leech upon being referred to?
I told him I was sure I could as I had remarked many objects whilst looking for cover
during the skirmishing.
Go then said the captain and show the poor woman the spot as she seemed so desireless
of finding the body.
I accordingly took my way over the ground we had fought upon she following and sobbing
after me quickly reaching the spot where her husband's body lay pointed out to her.
She now discovered soon all her hopes were in vain.
She embraced a stiffened corpse and after rising and contemplating his disfigured face
for some minutes with hands clasped and tears streaming down her cheeks she took a prayer
book from her pocket and kneeling down repeated the service for the dead over the body.
Poor woman.
I pity her much but there was no remedy.
I told her I was a little bit more nervous than I thought.
The French came down upon us as a column and the rifleman immediately commenced
to sharp fire upon them from whatever cover they could get a shelter behind whilst
our cannon played upon them from our rear.
I saw regular lanes torn through their ranks as they advanced which were immediately
closed up again as they marched steadily on.
Whenever we saw round shot, thus go through the mass we raised a shout of delight.
That's a savage image right there ranks of men and there's cannon balls that are cutting
lines through cutting lanes through them.
You probably talking 20, 30 people killed each one and the ranks just closing around them.
That's what these guys are seeing as this advanced takes place.
They're continue through that battle.
They get into a position for another battle.
Going back to the book as I looked about me while standing and ranked and just thought
and just before the commencement of the battle, I thought it the most imposing sight
the world could produce.
Our lines glittering with bright arms, the stern features of the men as they stood with
their eyes fixed on alterably upon the enemy, the proud colors of England floating over
the heads of the different battalions and the dark cannon on the rising ground and all
in readiness to commence the awful work of death with a noise that would defen the whole
multitude.
Although the sight had a singular and terrible effect upon the feelings of a youth who,
a few short months before, had been a solitary shepherd upon the downs of door-sature
and had never contemplated any other sort of life than the peaceful occupation of watching
the innocent sheep as they fed upon the grassy turf.
Talk about a dichotomy.
Yeah. No fought in his mind other than watching sheep eat grass.
I would think that that would be kind of a good little escape, you know, from time to time
to notice those types of things.
Yes, I think you're right and I think that happens and there's a movie called the Finn Redline
and that's portrayed very well.
And all this chaos, he'll take cover and he'll be face to face with a flower or he'll
notice a bird or a bug and that's definitely something that people notice.
I mean, I noticed there's this sunset no matter where you are in the world and actually
there's sunset in the desert, it's a very beautiful thing and same with the sunrise.
And so those are little things that you notice even though you might not be in the mindset
to notice them, you still notice them.
Back to the book, the battle commencing immediately, we were all soon hard at work.
The rifles as usual were pretty busy in this battle.
The French and Great Numbers came steadily down upon us and we peltered away upon them
like a shower of lead and hail.
Under any cover we could find and lay, firing one moment jumping up and running for at
the next.
And when we could see before us, we observed the cannonballs making a lane through the
enemy's columns as they advanced as they were, hosying and shouting like madmen.
The battle soon became general, the smoke thickened around and often I was obliged to stop
firing and dash it aside from my face and try and vain to get a sight of what was going
on whilst groans and shouts and an oys of cannon and muscatory appeared almost to shake
the very ground.
It seemed hell upon or if I thought.
A man named John Low stood before me at this moment and he turned round during a pause
in our exertions, then he addressed me, Harris, you humbug?
He said, you've got plenty of money about you, I know, for you don't always staying
about and picking up what you can find on the field.
But I think this will be your last field, Dale, boy.
A good many of us will catch it, I suspect today.
The right low I said, I've got nine guinea's in my pack and if I am shot today and you
escape yourself, it's quite at your service in the meantime, however, if you see any symptoms
of my wishing to flinch in this business, I hope you will shoot me with your own hand.
Low.
So let's think about that.
That's pretty awesome.
Well, the attitude of they're basically talking smack to each other.
Classic.
Hey, I don't think you're going to make it.
I know you got a lot of money on you and if you don't make it, what do you say?
Is that mine?
Yes, if I die, come and get it.
I got nine guinea's in my pack.
They're all yours.
And then this is classic.
By the way, if you see me acting cowardly in any way, you better shoot me.
Yeah, it's legit.
Low as well as myself survived this battle.
And after it was over, whilst we sat down with our comrades and rested amongst other matters,
talked over, low told them of our conversation during the heat of the day, and the money
I'd collected, and the rifles from that time to time had a great respect for me.
It is indeed singular how a man loses or gains cast with his comrades from the behavior
and how closely he is observed on the battlefield.
Again, talking about reputation once again.
The officers too are commented upon and closely observed.
Everyone's watching the officers.
The men are very proud of those who are brave in the field and kind in consider it
to the soldiers and under them.
An act of kindness done by an officer has often during battle been the cause of his life
being saved.
Got a little relationship going.
Nay, whatever folks may say upon the matter, I know from experience that in our army,
the men like best be officer by gentleman, men whose education is rendered them more kind
in manners than your course officer sprung from obscure origin and whose style is brutal
and overbearing.
So as I was reading through that, at first I kind of got a little bit taken a back
and said, what are you trying to say if you have a men of college or that's what you need,
you need to be from this good upbringing.
But that might be what he's saying at that time.
But the important part is it's how you treat people.
Doesn't matter what background you came from.
He says, men whose education is rendered them more kind in manners and rather than someone
that's from an obscure origin.
What I'm telling you is it doesn't matter where you're from and he would agree with this
now if he was here to talk with me.
Of course.
But it's not.
He's talking about the the men like to work for officers that aren't brutal and overbearing.
No one likes that.
And you don't perform well.
You want to build the relationship with your troops, the kindness done by an officer
is often during the battle, been the cause of his life being saved.
That means guys are trying to win.
Back to the book and let me bear testimony to the courage and endurance of that army
under trials and hardships, such as few armies in any age I should think endured.
I've seen officers and men hobbling forward with tears in their eyes from the misery
of long miles, empty stomachs and ragged backs without even shoes or stockings on their
bleeding feet.
And it was not a little thing that would bring a tear into the eyes of a riflemen of the
peninsula wars.
Yuts, who had not long been removed from their parents home and care, officers and men
have borne hardships and privations such as in our more peaceful days, we have little conception
of.
And yet these men, faint and weary with toil, would brighten up in a moment when the
war granted amongst us that the enemy were at hand.
Once again he's ragging on you have really been to war lately, peaceful days and brutal
privations that these guys go through and yet they're still ready to step up.
Back to the book it was just at the close of the battle.
The dreadful turmoil and noise of the engagement had hardly subsided and I began to look
at the faces of the men close around me to see who had escaped the dangers of the hour.
I saw that the ranks of the riflemen looked very thin.
It seemed to me that one half had gone down.
We had four companies with a 95th and were commanded that day by major traverse.
He was a man much liked by the men of the rifles and indeed deservedly beloved by all
who knew him.
He was a tight hand but a soldier likes that better than a slavinly officer.
Pay attention to that one.
Don't be a slavinly leader.
The troops prefer the tight hand.
Back to the book I had observed him more than once during this day spurring here and there
keeping the men well up and apparently in the highest spirits.
He could not have enjoyed himself more I am sure.
If he had been at a horse race or following a good pack of hounds.
The battle was just over.
A flag of troops came over from the French.
We threw ourselves down where we were standing when the fire ceased.
A Frenchman lay close beside me.
He was dying and called to me for water which I understood him to require more from his
manner than his words.
I need not say that I got up and gave it to him.
Whilst I did so, down galloped the major in front, just in the same good spirits he'd
been in all day, plugging along, avoiding with some little difficulty, the dead and dying
which were strewn about.
He was never a very good-looking man being hard-featured and thin, a hatchet faced man as we
used to say.
But he was a regular good and a real English soldier.
And that's better than if he had been the handsomeest ladies man in the army.
Legit.
Totally legit.
Back to the book, a French soldier was lying beside me at this time.
He was badly wounded and hearing him moan as he lay after I had done looking at the cavalry.
I turned my attention to him and getting up.
Lifted his head and poured some water into his mouth.
He was dying fast, but he thanked me in a foreign language, which although I did not exactly
understand, I could easily make out by the lucky gave me.
Mullins of the rifles, who stepped up whilst I supported his head, damned me for a fool
for my pains.
Better knock out his brains, Harris, he said, he's done us, mischief, enough.
I'll be bound for it today.
The rifleman Harris is still a pretty sympathetic dude.
Back to the book, towards evening I posted upon a rising ground amongst a clump of tall
trees.
There seemed to have been a sharp skirmish here as three Frenchmen were lying dead amongst
the long grass upon the spot where I was standing.
As I threw my rifle to my shoulder and walked past them on my beat, I observed they had
been plundered and their haversax having been torn off some of the contents were scattered
about.
War is a sad blunter of the feelings I have often thought since those days.
The contemplation of three ghastly bodies in this lonely spot failed then in making the slightest
impression upon me.
The sight had become even in the short time I had been engaged in the trade, but two familiar.
And now there another truce kind of happens and he's observing the scene in this church
yard.
The scene in this church yard was somewhat singular.
Two long tables had been procured from some houses near and were placed end to end amongst
the graves and upon them were laid the men whose limbs it was found necessary to amputate.
Both French and English were constantly lifted on and off these tables.
As soon as the operation was performed upon one lot they were carried off and in those
waiting behind were hoisted up.
The surgeons with their sleeves turned up and their hands and arms covered in blood looking
like butchers in the shambles.
I saw as I passed at least 20 legs lying on the ground, many of them being clothed in the
long black gators then worn by the infantry line.
The surgeons had plenty of work on hand that day and not having the time to take the
clothes off the wounded.
They merely ripped the seams and turned the cloth back, proceeding with the operation as fast
as they could.
Many of the wounded came straggling into this church yard and search of assistance by themselves.
I saw one man faint with loss of blood staggering along and turned to a system.
He was severely wounded in the head, his face being completely encrusted with blood which
had flowing during the night now dried.
One eyeball was knocked out of the socket and hung down upon his cheek.
Another man I observed who had been brought in and propped up against a grave mound.
He seemed very badly hurt.
The men who had carried him into the church yard had placed his cap filled with the fragments
of biscuit close beside his head and he lay and occasionally turned his mouth towards
it, got a hold of a piece of biscuit and munched it.
As I was about to leave the church yard, Dr. Ridgeway, one of the surgeons called me back
to assist with holding a man he was endeavouring to operate upon.
Come and help me with this man, he said, where I shall be all day cutting a ball out of his
shoulder.
The patient's name was Douder, an Irishman.
He disliked the doctor's efforts and arrived and twisted so much during the operation
that it was with difficulty Dr. Ridgeway could perform it.
He found a necessary to cut very deep and Douder made a terrible outcry at every fresh
incision.
Oh, Dr. Deer, doctor, he said, it's murdering me you are.
Blood and hounds, I shall die, I shall die for the love of the Lord, don't cut me all
the pieces.
Douder was not altogether wrong.
For although he survived the operation, he died shortly thereafter from the effects of his wounds.
Again, you just got surgeons mixing blood and not clean and not even cutting off clothes
or sterilizing.
I mean, the amount of people that must have lost from the infections after the fact
is just crazy.
Now they weren't fighting all the time.
And at this point, they are quartered into house and Spain and again, Spain was divided
at the time and there was friendly and enemy, Spain and so they are quartered in a house
and there's a family there.
Here we go to the book, the mistress of the house, seeing that I was the head man, occasionally
came down and sat beside me as I worked, bringing her daughter, a very handsome, dark-eyed
Spanish girl and as a matter of course, I fell in love.
We soon became better acquainted and the mother one evening having sat and chattered to
me serving me with wine and other good things on my rising to leave the shop made a signal
for me to follow her.
She had managed to pick up a little English and I knew a few words of the Spanish language
so that we could pretty well comprehend each other's meeting.
And after leading me into their sitting room, she brought in her handsome daughter and without
more circumstances offered her to me for a wife.
The offer was attempting one, but the conditions of the marriage made it impossible for me
to comply since I was to change my religion and dessert my colors.
The old-dame proposed to conceal me, effectively, when the army marched after which I was
to live like a gentleman with the handsome Maria for a life.
It was hard to refuse so tempting and offer with pretty Maria endeavering to back her mother's
proposal.
I, however, made them understand that nothing would tempt me to dessert and promising
to try and get my discharge when I returned to England, I protested I would then return
and marry Maria.
Soon after this the army marched for Spain, the rifles paraded in the very street where
the shop I had so long worked at was situated and I saw Maria at the window.
As our bugle struck up, she waved her handkerchief.
I returned the salute and in half an hour had forgotten all about her.
So much for the soldiers love that I read that and I said, I have to read this.
This is to every 18, 19, 20 and 21 year old service member out there that you made the
girlier dreams and you think you're going to do some dumb stuff.
Don't do the dumb stuff.
Go back to your platoon and in a half an hour you'll forget about her because that's what
happens.
Such so much for a soldier's love.
Back to the book, every man in the rifle seemed only anxious to get a wrap at the French
again.
On a non-weed toiled, I love to remember the appearance of that army as we moved along
at this time.
It was a glorious sight to see our colors spread in these fields.
The men seemed invincible.
Nothing I thought could have beaten them.
He's talking about a guy named Cardo.
He was found to be a most gallant officer when we were engaged with the enemy in the field.
He was killed whilst fighting bravely in the Pyrenees and amongst other Jewry he wore, he had
a ring on his finger worth 150 guineas.
He lay dead on the field one of our rifle, rifleman named Orr, observed the sparkling
gem and immediately resolved to make a prize of it.
The ring however was so firmly fixed that Orr could not draw it from the finger and whipping
out his knife cut the finger off at the joint.
After the battle or offered the ring for sale amongst the officers and on inquiry the
manner in which he obtained it transpired.
Orr was in consequence, tried by court martial and sent us to receive 500 lashes which
sentenced his carried into execution.
There's some significant corpal punishment going on here with the lashes and that's
one of the cases.
I mean, you know when you're executing someone for being drunk and disorderly, you're
going to get some pretty severe punishment for cutting the finger off of one of your officers
so you can steal their ring.
Back to the book it was during the heat of the day we were rather hotly pressed by the
enemy after having advanced somewhat to near their force.
Given take is all fair enough but we were getting more kicks than half-pence as the saying
is and their balls stung us so sharply that the officers gave the word to fire and retire.
Outless, many got a lead in messenger as they did so which saved them the unpleasant necessity
of retracing their ground altogether.
Jock Gillespie and myself wheeled about and obeyed the order.
Just as we had done so I saw Gillespie limp along as though someone had bestowed a violent
kick upon his person.
However he didn't give up at first but continued to load and fire and make off with other
scourmetures to we halted and made another stand.
For we never went further from them when once engaged then we could possibly help.
I'm going to read that again.
We continued to load and fire and make off with other scourmetures to we halted and made
another stand for we never went further from them when once engaged then we could possibly
help and what that means is covered move.
So if you are out on the battlefield and you get too far away from the other element where
you can no longer support them you've made a big mistake.
So that's why they have doctrinal terms that mean I am in supporting distance.
I won't go further away from you than where I can't help you.
All right now speaking of lashing is there's another situation here.
There was sort of a ceremony where they were gathering and standing in the parade sort
of in a town square and somebody basically threw I think like a brick.
One of the soldiers from one of the windows that was watching the other regiment.
So there's one regiment standing on the parade field, handing out a wars or something.
The other regiment sitting up in the various rooms around looking down and at some point
this someone hooks a brick down and it hits the kernel.
So this guy, Listen, was the guy that they grab and they think it's this guy, Listen,
back to the book.
Listen was sentenced to receive 800 lashes. The whole brigade turned out on the occasion and
I remember that the drummers of the night regiment were the inflictors of the lash.
Listened, Listen received the whole sentence without a murmur.
This is a him talking about.
As he goes on to talk about how this strict discipline about it and how it kind of fits
in with the English mentality back to the book.
They are strange set the English and so determined and unconscribable that they will have
their way if they can.
Think about that.
Your soldiers, it's a great quality to have right your determined and unconscribable.
But what does that mean?
I mean you're going to have your way if you can.
If you let them, they're going to get after it.
Maybe in a good way you don't expect.
Indeed, back to the book it indeed, it requires one who has authority in his face as
well as at his back to make them respect and obey him.
They see too often in the instance of sergeant majors that command does not suit ignorant
and course-minded men.
And that tyranny is too much used even in the brief authority which they have.
So again, he's going back to the fact that even though you have to have, he's talking
about the dichotomy of leadership, even though you have to have discipline, you can't have
tyranny.
Back to the book, a soldier I'm convinced is driven often to in subordination by being worried
by these little-minded men for the various trifles about which the gentleman never thinks
of tormenting him.
So the little-minded person that harps on these little trifling things, that's what actually
creates in subordination, whereas the gentleman never thinks of tormenting him with these
little things.
Like these little things don't matter.
Then he goes on to balance this dichotomy of leadership back to the book, the moment
the severity of the discipline of our army is relaxed in my opinion, farewell to its efficiency.
But for men to be tormented about trifles, as I've seen at many times, is often very
injurious to the whole core.
So this is the perfect talking about the balance of the dichotomy of leadership.
If you're too altruist, your guys are going to rebel against you, and if you're not strict
enough, or you don't impose enough discipline, they're going to not have any control.
So you've got to balance these two.
Going forward back to the book, war is a sad blunter of the feelings of men.
He said that before, and he's saying it again.
We felt eager to be added again.
Nay, I am afraid we longed for blood as the cheer of our comrades sounded in our ears,
and yet amidst all this, softer feelings occasionally filled the breasts of those gallant
fellows, even whilst they were thirsting for the sight of the enemy.
Some of the men near me suddenly recollected as they saw the snow lying thickly on our
past path that this was Christmas Eve.
The recollection soon spread amongst the men, and many talk to home and scenes upon
that night in the other days of the old England shedding tears as they spoke of the
relative's and friends never to be seen again by them.
As night approached, we became less talkative.
The increasing weiriness of our limbs kept our tongues quieter, and we were many of us half
a sleep as we walked when suddenly a shout arose in the front that the French were upon
us.
So guys are missing home.
It's Christmas Eve.
Nice little dusting of snow on the ground.
They have this skirmish with the French there, and now they're continuing the first
march.
If you remember the march that we talked about with Napoleon's troops going into Russia
and back, these guys are under the same basic conditions of if you want to move the
army, the army is going to walk.
Back to the book, a sergeant of the night.
So he's now on this also, not only they forced marching right now, they're starting to
retreat.
They're starting to take heavies, and they start a retreat.
Back to the book, a sergeant of the 90 second highlanders just about this time fell dead with
fatigue, and no one stopped as we passed off for a many assistance.
Night came down upon us.
So let's think about that.
And this, I highlighted that one, but throughout this book he talks about people that
is dying, and he says they died of fatigue.
I even know what that means actually.
Maybe they're dehydrated.
I don't know.
But if you think about these guys who are risking their lives for each other, how exhausted
are they that when someone falls out during this first march, the forced march, they just
leave them there.
Back to the book, night came down upon us without our having tasted food or halted.
I speak for myself and those around me, all and all night long we continued this dreadful
march.
Men began to look into each other's faces and ask the questions.
Ask the question, are we ever to be halted again?
Many of the weaker sort were now seen to stagger, make a few desperate efforts, and then
fall, perhaps, to rise no more.
Most of us had devoured all we cared in our haversax, and each and in, and endeavored
to catch up anything we could snatch from a hut or cottage in our route.
Many, even at this period, would have struggled from the ranks and perished, had not
crowdfered, held them together with a firm rain.
One such bold and stern commander in the east, during a memorable disaster, and that
devoted army had reached its refuge unbroken.
Thus we staggered on night and day for about four days before we discovered the reason
of this forced march.
And they find out that they're marching actually towards England, they're trying to get
away, and this guy that I talked about Crawford, he's pretty significant.
And here's a little talk about Crawford.
Crawford seemed to sniff the sound of battle from afar with peculiar feelings.
He halted us for a few minutes occasionally when the distant clamor became more distinct,
and his face turned toward the sound and seemed to light up and become less stern.
He was then indeed that every poor fellow clutched his weapon more firmly and wished for
a sight of the enemy.
Before long they had their wish.
The enemy's cavalry were on our skirts that night, and as we rushed out of a small village,
we turned to bay.
So even though they were treating, they're still having to fight.
And this again, this guy Crawford is definitely a powerful leader back to the book.
I remember one evening during the retreat, he detected two men straying away from the main
body.
It was in the early stage of that disastrous flight and Crawford knew, and Crawford knew
well that he must do his utmost to keep the division together.
He halted the brigade with a voice of thunder, ordered a drum-head court martial on
the instant, and they were sentenced to a hundred apiece.
Allstahasty trial was taking place, Crawford dismounting from his horse stood in the
midst, looking stern and angry as a worried bulldog.
He did not like retreating at all that man.
They march a little bit further, and then back to the book, ordering a square to be formed.
He spoke to the brigade as well as I can remember in these words, after having ordered
the three before named men of the 95th to be brought to the square.
Although he said, I should obtain the goodwill neither of the officers nor the men of
the brigade here by doing so, I am resolved to punish these three men according to the
sentence awarded, even though the French are at our heels.
Begin with Daniel Hauens.
So these guys were looked like they were going to desert and they got caught and he had
a court martial on the spot and he was going to give them a hundred lashes or whatever
the number was.
And even though they were running and retreating, he's, alright, we're going to administer
this punishment now, even though it's not popular, I got to do it.
Back to the book, this was indeed no time to be lax and discipline in the general knew it.
The men, as I said, were some of them, becoming careless and roughly in their demeanor,
whilst others again I saw with the tears falling down their cheeks from the agony of their
bleeding feet and many were ill with dysentery and from the effects of bad food they had
got a hold of and devoured on the road.
Our Napsacks, too, were a bitter enemy in this prolonged march.
Many a man died, I am convinced, who would have borne up well to the end of the retreat,
but for the infernal load we carried on our backs.
My own Napsack was my bitterest enemy.
I felt it pressed me to the earth almost at times and more than once felt as if I should
die under its deadly embrace.
The Napsacks, in my opinion, should have been abandoned at the very commencement of the
retrograde movement, as it would have been better to have lost them all together, if,
by such loss, we could have saved the poor fellows who, as it was, died strapped to them
on the road.
There was some difficulty in finding a place to tie howling's up, as the light brigade
carried no halberts.
However, they led him to a slender astree which grew near at hand.
Don't trouble yourselves about tying me up, said howling's folding his arms, I'll take
my punishment like a man.
He did so without a murmur receiving the whole 300.
His wife, who was present with us, I remember was a strong, hearty Irish woman.
So, I don't worry about tying me up, you hit me 300 times.
We had a, you know they do the whipping thing with the, when you get your belt.
Do you remember Irish John, you tall, pretty lanky and real good at your jitsu, and he
got his blue belt.
And he walked through the whipping hallway to get his belt, the gauntlet, he walked through
the gauntlet, he just walked and stopped at each person and gave them the opportunity
to give them all they got.
That was pretty legit.
He sounds like he sounds like my, he sounds like my boy, howling's right here.
More about Crawford right here, this is classic.
They're, they're getting to a river, they got across a river on their retreat.
Back to the book, presently he spied an officer who to save himself from being wet through.
I suppose, and wearing a damp pair of breeches for the remainder of the day, had mounted
on the back of one of his men.
The sight of such a piece of a feminacy was enough to raise the collar of the general,
and in a very short time he was plunging and splashing through the water after them both,
put him down, sir, put him down.
I desire you to put that officer down instantly, and the soldier in an instant, I dare
say, while dropping his burden like a hot potato into the stream continued his progress
through.
Return back, sir, said Crawford to the officer.
And go through the water like the others.
I will not allow my officers to ride upon the men's back through the rivers.
They'll must take their share of light here.
You can just go ahead and note that down as how to lead.
That's just, that's a metaphorical and literal example.
Hey, I'm going to ride on the back of my enlisted man so that I can stay dry.
What a savage.
I think that, that guy should have gotten some lashes.
Back to the book, General Crawford was indeed one of the few men who was apparently
created for the command during such dreadful scenes as we were familiar with in this retreat.
He seemed an iron man, nothing dented him, nothing turned him from his purpose.
War was his very element.
And toil and danger seemed to call forth and increasing determination to surmount them.
I'll let you get it. Now they are continuing to march and again, it's a story we've
heard many times on here and how harsh foot marches can be.
And at this point, rifleman Harris, he doesn't think he's going to make it.
And he's fading fast.
He's marching with a guy named Brooks.
They're kind of broken up into pairs to try and stay together a little bit.
He's trying to maintain back to the book.
I remember sir, Dudley Hill passing me on a muel this day.
He wore a Spanish straw hat and had his cloak on.
He looked back when he had passed and addressed me.
Harris said he, I see you cannot keep up.
He peered very sorry for me for he knew me well.
You must do your best, he said, my man and keep up with us.
Or you will fall into the hands of the enemy.
As the day wore on, I grew weaker and weaker and at last, spite all of my efforts.
I saw the main body leave me hopelessly in the lurch.
Brooks himself was getting weaker too.
He saw it was a little used to urge me on and at length, ascending to my repeated requests
to be left behind.
He hurried on as well.
And he was able without a word of farewell.
I now soon sank down in the road and lay beside another man who had also fallen was apparently
dead and whom I'd recognized as one of our sergeants named Taylor.
Whilst we lay exhausted in the road, the rear guard, which was now endeavouring to drive
on the stragglers approached and a sergeant of the rifles came up and stopped and look at
us.
He addressed himself to me and ordered me to rise, but I told him it was useless for him
to trouble himself about me as I was unable to move a step further.
Whilst he was urging me to endeavor to rise up, the officer in command of the rear guard
also stepped up.
The name of this officer was Lieutenant Cox.
He was a brave and good man and observing that the sergeant was rough in his language
and manner towards me, he silenced him and bade the guard proceed and leave me.
Bet him die quietly, Hicks.
He said to the sergeant, I know him well, he's not a man to lie here if he could get on.
I'm sorry, Harris.
He said to see you reduced to this fright fear, there is no help to be had now.
He then moved on after his men and left me to my fate.
Lot different than never leave a man behind.
You've actually got people disengue.
You're not going to make it.
I can see you're not going to make it.
I know you're a tough guy and if you're not walking right now, there's nothing for you.
Now he lays there for a while and he actually wants to rest for a while.
He regains a little bit of strength, he eventually crawls to a house, gets in the house
and gets a little bit of food, gets a little bit of, I would love to say water, but
he's not going to get his food and wine.
He recovers somewhat, he pretty much recovers.
Sleeps for a while wakes up, recovers and now he can walk again.
What do you think would happen now?
In a case as similar to this as possible, you know, but just now where I can't make it,
what do you do, carry him?
Yeah, you'd try and carry him, of course.
Other guys, guys.
Yeah, and it's horrible to think of these situations where if we have to move these men
and to sit there, let's away this.
You have to weigh this, if we try and carry it all over a wounded out, none of us are going
to live.
That's what that's the situation that they're likely facing.
Hey, you're either going to get out of here yourself and people don't understand how hard
it is to carry it down, man.
It's very, very difficult to carry it down, man.
Especially across terrain, you know, sometimes in wrestling practice, you pick up and
you pick up your partner and you do a couple of laps, right?
Yeah, you know, that's all good, you're on a nice smooth surface.
Because cooperating is not just dead weight, yeah, when you start carrying bodies around,
it's really, really difficult.
So you don't, it's not a one to one either.
So if one guy is down, it's not just one person carries that guy.
It actually has to be two or sometimes three.
When you have gear on, and we have methods of carrying guys, I mean, I can carry you
a little while, right? But after a little while, you know, be that 500 meters, 1000 meters,
you're not going to be here for, and also you're combat in effect.
If you can't, you can't utilize your weapon properly, not for, not for any length of time.
So, you know, in a situation like this, that the decision that these leaders are making
is, hey, guess what?
If we don't just keep walking, we're going to get overrun.
The French are going to catch us and we're all going to die.
So Harris, you got nothing for you.
So in content like now, we'll say that if there was a circumstance like that, where we're
going to lose more guys if we bring this guy with us or one big luxury that we have now
is we have air support.
So the enemy wants to keep coming out of us, cool.
We'll sit here and call drop bombs on them all day.
The situations like that have happened over and over again in the modern wars.
And in Iraq and Afghanistan, where small elements are out there in the field, they're about
to get overrun and the aircraft and air, air power comes in and completely saves the
day and keeps the enemy at bay for extended periods of time.
So we have an option, another option.
But in the, I guess, the ultimately be hypothetical then.
The case.
So hypothetically, then you got to put someone in that situation and see what they're
going to do.
And that's the decision you got to make as a leader on the spot.
Yeah.
I mean, you be weighing all these micro micro facets that are happening.
How far away are the bad guys?
Yeah.
Well, how many of them are there?
Do I reinforcements coming?
Is there any terrain I can take?
Is there what, you know, what can I do?
How many people are down?
Yeah.
You do have to weigh all these things out and make a decision.
It's going to be hard decision.
Yeah, for sure.
I mean, so you don't put like the the concept or should I say, like the action.
The action of at least trying to bring the guy with you ahead of like other guys lives.
So I'm a certain circumstance like this where you have to, you don't have any content.
You don't have any support.
You don't have any other options.
It's either other guys die or we leave this guy behind.
The fact that you tried to bring the guy doesn't Trump like the lives of other guys.
If the decision is to be made where it's understood like other guys would have died.
If we didn't leave this guy here, that would be okay.
It's not gonna be okay and you're gonna have to live with one horrible thought or the
other.
Right, right.
The thing that's powerful about we're not gonna leave everything anyone behind.
The thing that's powerful about that is if that's your default mode, your default mode is
to fight and that's what that's a we train.
That's when I say we I mean like America trains, we're not gonna leave you behind.
And so when that's your go to attitude, that's your go to attitude.
And all the thoughts about hey, we'll weigh it out and there's like no we're gonna fight,
we're gonna kill everyone and we're gonna do everything we can to bring everyone back
that's what we do.
And that is a powerful thing.
Yeah, man, these are savage times.
These are savage times, savage times.
Going, so like I said, he does recover though, luckily before the French get to him,
he recovers enough to get out start walking again.
And he talks a little bit how he was clinging, I mean he was clinging to survival.
Back to the book, it is however indeed astonishing how a man clings to life.
I am certain that had I laying down at this period, I should have found my last billet
on the spot I sank upon.
Suddenly I heard a shout in the front, which was prolonged in a sort of hub hub.
Even the stragglers who I saw dotting the road in front of me seem to have caught something
like hope.
And as the poor fellows now reach the top of the hill where a sending a hernicational exclamation
of joy, the first note of the sort I had heard for many days, when I reached the top
of the hill, the thing spoke for itself, their far away in our front, the English shipping
lay inside.
It's a view, had indeed acted like a restorative to our force and the men at the prospect
of the termination of such a march had plucked up spirit for a last effort.
Fellows who, like myself, seemed hardly have strengthened their legs to creep up the
assent seemed now to have picked up a fresh pair to get down with, such as hope to us poor
mortals.
So they obviously see the ships and that inspires them and they start moving a little
bit faster.
Back to the book, there was a recollect of the name of Bell of the rifles who had been
during this day holding a sort of creeping race with me.
We had passed and repost each other as our strength served.
Bell was a rather discontented fellow at the best of times.
But during this retreat, he had given full scope to his ill temper, cursing the hour he
was born and wishing his mother had strangled him when he came into the world in order
to have saved him from his present toil.
He had not now spoken for some time and the sight of the English shipping had apparently
a very beneficial effect upon him.
He burst into tears as he stood and looked at it.
Harris, he said, if it pleases God to let me reach those ships, I swear never to utter
a bad or discontented word again.
Appreciation.
And he did make to the ships and Harris, rifleman Harris made to the ships and they
got embarked on those ships and they sailed back to England for a few days and then
get off the English shore and then finally back to the book, one fine morning received
orders to disembark and our poor bare feet once more touched English ground.
The inhabitants flocked down to the beach to see us as we did so and they must have been
a good deal surprised at the spectacle we presented.
Our beards were long and ragged, almost all were without shoes and stockings.
Many had their clothes and accoutrements and fragments with their heads swath in old rags
and our weapons were covered with rust, whilst not a few had now from toil and fatigue
become quite blind.
Let not the reader however think that now we were to be despised as soldiers, long marches,
inclement weather and want to food had done their work upon us but we were perhaps better
than we appeared as the sequel showed.
Under the gallant Crawford we had made some tremendous marches and even galt our enemy
so severely making good our retreat.
But our comrades in adversity who had retired by the other road under general more turned
to bay there and showed the enemy that the English soldier is not to be beaten even under
the most adverse circumstances.
It fueled the death and slaughter, the march, the Bivouac and the retreat are no bad places
in which to judge men.
I have had some opportunities of judging them in all these situations and I should say
that the British are amongst the most splendid soldiers in the world.
Give them fair play and they are unconscribable.
For my own part I can only say that I enjoyed life more whilst on active service than I
have ever done since.
And as I sit at work in my shop in Richmond Street, so ho, I look back upon that portion
of my time spent in the field of the peninsula as the only part where the overmembrants.
It is at such times that scenes long past come back upon my mind as if they had taken place
but yesterday.
I remember even the appearance of some regiments engaged in comrades long, molded to dust.
I see again performing the acts of heroes.
And I think it's safe to call Rifleman Benjamin Randall Harris a hero as well.
And at the same time I think it's important to remember that these heroes are not super
heroes like we see today in movies.
They don't wear a cape.
They don't have any superhuman strength.
They have no special powers what they do have is they have will to fight the will to drive
on the will to live the will to win.
And I think that's the superpower.
And it never ceases to amaze me.
These are normal people.
Rifleman Harris was a normal guy like us.
But when called upon to march, they march and when called upon to fight.
They fight and when called upon to rise up and overcome.
They do just that they rise up and overcome.
And that shows us that we can do the same thing in the challenges that we face.
We can do the same thing.
And overcome.
And I think that's all I've got for tonight's so echo.
Perhaps if you could let people know how they can support themselves and maybe if they
want to support this podcast as well.
It's crazy how these marches.
Right.
Brutal.
Yeah.
And this is I don't know.
Maybe from what I can remember the worst one.
Especially I'll be talking about with no shoes.
Their shoes probably just fall off with them first, you know, little bit.
And then they're walking with no shoes or barely any shoes or whatever.
Crying straight up just from the march.
By the way, not the, not the war or anything like that.
Where the marches yet.
This is big of an enemy.
He said his pack was his biggest enemy.
He had literally the death.
The kind where guys are still killing them.
Killings killing them.
So we just cut back from Utah obviously.
And you know, after every, we're doing that training where, you know, we brief debrief.
Go down exercise brief.
And then you know, we walk back and forth.
Right.
So, okay.
So, echo.
I'll just tell people have no idea what you're talking about.
So, I'll just find echo.
We just got echelon front, did a FTX field training exercise with the company.
We were in Utah.
We brought echo out so that he could get some footage and whatnot.
And so, so that's what we're talking about.
So we're in the field.
We're doing basically urban and combat with a group of, let's call them regular people,
business people that are learning leadership through experiential.
Environments.
Yeah.
It's an interesting one.
It's like a con, you know how, if you don't communicate with someone effectively,
it's falling apart.
Right.
Or if you don't, you know, it's like, and that's exactly what you're going to say.
And it's drawn out, stitching in life.
But this is like a condensed version of that.
Yes.
So, if you don't communicate with someone during an FTX, you know, within like 30 seconds
that something just went wrong.
And now we're getting shot in the face with airsoft rifles.
Yeah.
It's just fun.
It's really fun to watch from the outside.
Yeah.
Because you see it.
And I've been to another one too.
And yeah, you see it.
And it's interesting how in the beginning it's like, it's almost impossible.
Right.
And immediately communication breaks down immediately.
And then towards the end, you start to see people communicating, getting it.
You know, like, you kind of, a lot of times you got to over communicate.
Yeah, for sure.
But the more you do that, the more effective it is.
It's so crazy to watch.
It is.
And I don't know if you remember Dave saying this.
Dave told them.
He said, Jocco just told you the mistakes that you're going to make.
You told you what you're going to do.
And you're going to do it.
And then sure enough, and we're missing the one of them.
The funniest was the one individual that said they came up with a plan for something.
And we said, you know, you're risking to get a blue on blue on blue there.
And she said, she said, listen, I understand what you're saying.
But it's not like we're going to walk in there and start shooting each other.
Yeah.
That's not going to happen.
And and sure enough, that very girl was in a stressful situation.
And they ended a building from two different sides at the same time.
And sure enough, she, she dusted one of her, one of her teammates.
And it was, you know, it's one of those things.
Yeah.
I said, remember what you said yesterday?
She said, yeah.
Oh, yeah, I remember.
So just in, and I had the luxury of seeing it from the outside.
Oh, yeah.
So you can feel it though.
But you're in a different situation position than me.
Anyway, the point is, so the terrain there was where the field and where you actually
do that that field training part of it is like, well, what would you say?
What?
Just do a hundred yards away from the where you do the brief and debrief.
It is about 400 yards.
Yeah.
So it's a little bit of a track.
300 yards.
If you're doing it again and again, multiple times.
So you're going brief exercise, debrief, brief exit, you know, so kind of all day, really.
So, and this was a situation where there was a hill and rocky, you know, hill.
So I'm walking right now, my camera the whole time.
And it's not slay to the my other camera, but, you know, it's something.
And so I'm walking back and forth all day, all day, where my feet are starting to get
like kind of tired.
And I'm thinking every single time though, every single time I'm thinking, this is nothing.
Compared to what you guys really do.
Yeah.
You know how nothing it was?
I didn't that thought didn't even go across my mind at all in any way, shape or something.
You know what I'm saying about that is while I'm walking, this was like, after lunch
time.
I'm thinking, and I'm seeing you guys and everyone's cruising and I'm thinking, is everyone
trying to act like this isn't like kind of kind of terrain?
I literally didn't think of it until you said this to me right now.
Yeah, the biggest, I was totally acting like, well, there's nothing.
No, I wasn't going to.
I was going to, I, yeah, brother, I had a lot of stuff.
Yeah, and it helps.
Yeah, it does.
But the fact is, do you do actually better when you pretend that it doesn't bother you?
Yes, that's right.
Yeah, we're going to remember that night in the night in the, so we started acting
all tired, accepting, showing everyone.
Yeah, it's true.
But nonetheless, the fact is, it wasn't nothing.
It wasn't nothing.
It felt it, and, you know, so I'm just funny.
I'm looking at you guys something like, hey, I wonder if these guys are, you know, but
no one said anything.
No, nobody said dang, these tracks are getting long.
That's because they were 300 meters, bro.
I feel like they're just saying.
But nonetheless, so every time I feel anything like that, I think of like, you guys first
and you guys are doing it in like crazy heat too, gear and like all this stuff.
And I think of this kind guys, these kind guys.
Yeah.
Right from inheritance.
The right from inheritance.
Feet all tore up, starving, starving.
Starving.
No sleep.
No water.
And people are trying to kill you.
Oh yeah, yeah.
So that's the point, man.
Yeah.
Because if these guys can rise and overcome that, then what, figure your personal potential.
Right?
Yeah.
Think of it.
Think of what more you could do.
Yeah.
I've got to look and bother some of your guys.
Yeah, that looked like that.
You're like, I made some dope videos though.
We're about to make a huge excuse right now too.
Which I don't even know if it's an excuse, but it's a factor where these like hard actual
hard times kind of call on you to exercise this kind of will.
And I think a lot of times we're not like hard times don't call on us.
Like this anyway.
I mean, hard times do, you know.
But you know what though?
You should, I mean, technically and potentially you should be able to exercise as much
will as it takes.
Really?
Now when you consider kind of the limits.
Right?
Because these are the limits.
These are the limits.
This is one of the stories where the guys like I'm done.
Yeah.
He's a little bit more.
I'm done.
Guys are saying, hey, if you stay here, you're going to die.
He's like, yeah, I cannot move anymore.
No.
You know, what point are you at when you cannot save your own life by walking?
You can't walk.
You can't take another step.
And he came back from that.
Yeah.
Jay.
And they told really good job in illustrating it.
Because you, or talking about it, where, because he mentioned the no shoes thing a few
times.
Yeah.
He did.
But again, I bet if, yeah.
Yeah.
He does a great job.
But you can't even begin to, yeah, you can't even begin to really get the point across.
Yeah.
The way it is.
As the leader, I was talking to a guy the other day.
That went to Buds and didn't make it through.
And I know them for a while.
And I just said, like, hey, man, you know, you're a good dude.
You know, what?
Why did you?
Why did you quit?
And he said, you know what?
It just sucked.
And I was like, okay, but didn't you know it was going to suck?
And he said, yeah, I knew it was going to suck.
But at the same time, you know, I watched on TV and I thought to myself, okay, yeah,
that's going to suck.
He said, so I thought I understood how it was going to suck.
But I didn't understand how it was going to suck.
And then I was there.
I said, this really sucks.
And he quit.
And again, a good dude that, that I'm kind of, you know, thinking myself, why?
I'm trying to figure out why people quit.
And that was what he said.
He said much like we're saying, because much of you could imagine.
And you think you're self-alman.
Yeah.
But I think I could make that one more step.
You don't know.
You're known to you.
You've been dehydrated.
Having people trying to shoot you, cleaning up your buddies brains off your jacket
for weeks, months on end.
Your dehydrated.
And now you have no shoes, no stockings.
And you're doing a forced march on this road for this, but they march four days without
stopping.
What even is that?
No, no, no, dang.
Yeah.
That's it.
I mean, you.
This kind of, that's not to mention like, no medical care.
No.
No one's coming to save you.
You know what?
If you have an ingrown toenail.
Right, right, like, like, a little thing that is Bob, it actually bothers you in actual life.
Yeah.
Think if you had that here, or you have a, or you have, let's say you got a spring
ankle.
A bad spring ankle.
I spray my ankle really bad before.
Sure.
You can't walk on it.
Well, now you don't have a choice.
You either walk on it or you die.
I think about the little things that are that caused you an inconvenience right now.
I think about what an inconvenience that is in this situation.
Think about your little infection and your fingers, you know, your finger, you're, you've
ever had one of those little stupid, like, where your fingernails get a little infection
there?
Yeah, yeah.
Think about that.
And that you don't have no medicine.
You don't have any way of, yeah, that's the things you're going to turn into
in giant infection.
Yeah.
You die.
This is the little, little tiny things that annoy you are, will kill you back in the
day.
Yeah.
Check.
So what we have to do is prepare for these hard times.
Do you have any advice on how we could help prepare ourselves for these hard times?
On top of referencing these scenarios.
I reference your guys scenario.
Like, basically, everything that you guys tell me and talk about, like, how it's super hot.
How you don't sleep as much.
I'm not talking about bad and talking about, like, Ian Ramadi.
I call these up.
I kind of imagine that helps.
It's coldly helps.
That's good.
Because it helps me to think about right from the Harris.
Yeah.
Don't.
For sure.
And to speak in a help.
Speaking of helping yourself.
All right.
So you're, in a way, this is kind of a dichotomy here.
Because you don't like when you're joined to get sore.
I'm talking about cruel.
I want to hear a fair real quick.
That you can be a self-pream luxury.
Yeah.
You're right from the Harris, you know.
So, Joy-Wiffer, who knows?
I have no thumbs.
I'm pretty sure it may be wouldn't stop that day.
That time.
It's a pretty luxury.
Yeah.
Supreme luxury.
Where now it's like, hey, my joints.
I'm getting older.
My joints kind of hurt.
I can't.
I can't work out at the gym.
You know, at my leisure.
As good, let me take some joint warfare.
You know, improve my comfort while I work out.
Function for sure.
Function.
But comfort has a lot to do with it.
You know, with sore joints is way less comfortable than not sore joint.
Yeah.
I'm going to say though, there's exercises that you cannot do when you're doing
it right at your rock and roll.
Yeah.
So, you can push yourself harder and be better prepared for the hard times if you're
working correctly.
If your joints are working correctly.
Yeah.
That's a dichotomy.
And there also is no like concession.
There's no reason to say, hey, my joints being less
healthy is a good is fine.
Is good.
That's a good thing.
You know, so you have a choice.
Should I maintain or improve the joint?
My joint health of my body, including but not limited to joints or should I not?
The decision should never be.
I'm not.
Never be.
I think that's what's my opinion.
Anyway, so the point is so jocquism supplements.
Joint.
So it's for your joints.
It's best kind of supplements as someone with a level head now is for a supplements
goes.
Go.
I think the joint for your joints.
You know, bones.
Maybe stuff that's going to be stronger.
Structural.
Yeah.
Structural support.
Because again, and I said, it's like if you're going for a cool protein
powder, a lot of people that say, hey, what's a good protein powder?
Because I think you don't stake.
Like how much protein do you like not get to need supplemental protein?
Well, people know, people want that because it's getting the convenience.
That's why people like those.
I'm going to make one that's going to be both convenient and tasty and good.
All right.
There you go.
Nonetheless, that's cool.
I'm not saying that's a bad thing.
I'm saying as far as like the importance of focusing on a supplement, the most benefit
is that you're spending your convenience that really.
For sure.
That supplementing protein.
You're supplementing convenience.
Nothing wrong with that.
We got a lot to do.
I understand.
But as far as like the what do you call it, the hierarchy of supplements.
You're in the same change.
Jordan B. Peter's in supplements.
You're in the house.
The dominant hierarchy of supplements.
The the drill oil.
Omega threes.
Like these kinds of things that help you directly.
That's the main one.
Anyway.
So your point in all this is.
Just a supplement.
Legit supplements.
Super krill oil.
Jocco super krill is what's called.
It's krill oil for you joints and join warfare.
Where do you get them?
Origin main dot com.
Okay.
Thank you.
Brown, I'm telling you, I feel like.
Your drawing this out way too much.
If I was doing this to be like, if you want to have good healthy joints, get some
krill oil, super krill and get some joint warfare from originmain.com, M.A.I.N.E.
Yeah.
But, and then we'd be good.
We'd be moving on the next thing.
Yeah, no, I dig it.
And I want to read the time at the hierarchy.
Here's the thing.
The dominant number.
No, it's a little bit like, remember, and this makes sense.
This is relevant.
Your get all serious with me.
It's not going to prove you point.
Because you're not doing it.
I'm going to prove it because I'm not.
Because back out of your element out of your.
Again, again, when I was, we'll say 23.
I don't know, take some fos for something.
Yeah, yeah.
I just got stuff.
Yeah.
So what if someone, listening, or group people listening, who have that same mindset,
and it's not because not because I knew both things.
And I would just, I just didn't know.
OK.
So I'm going to say, now, so now we know.
Yeah, well, that's good.
If there's someone that doesn't know that, maybe they turn this off.
Like eight minutes ago.
Maybe maybe not four, maybe they're more educated now, and maybe boom.
They're now they're looking into the joint situation.
That's what I think is happening.
That's my opinion.
Hey, care.
That's my prediction.
I'm sure Twitter will let us know.
Anyway, the origin main.com on the top.
Click labs.
Actually, it's right in the front page.
I keep forgetting that.
It's right in the front page.
Boom.
Super curl.
And joint warfare.
Get on it.
There's also some geys and rash guards.
People been asking me years now.
I don't think I should get it.
I started to do this.
What geys should I get?
We know now.
100% all made in America from the content from the seeds of the content.
Planted harvested process.
That's pretty much the seeds did do.
The seeds.
Yeah.
Well, that's an exciting thing.
I'm just saying.
Yeah.
If you're into that kind of stuff.
But nonetheless, you know, Pete makes it in Maine.
Formulate to the fabric.
Boom.
That's a lot of stuff too.
By the way, clothing.
Pete has more of like a stylish kind of twist on his clothing.
Yeah.
In fact, I always, who was it?
Oh, Dave Burke.
Yeah.
And we're in Utah.
Had the origin, the hoodie.
Yeah.
And the hoodie has like, I don't know if you know this kind of stuff.
But like, there's certain cuts of like hoodie and stuff.
And even though it's like a new one.
No, my cutters excel.
Yeah.
I see.
It goes beyond that.
No.
Yes, it does.
Anyway, Mike, you know, it's noticeable for people who want to know
this.
No, but I noticed that.
I'm going to get it.
That's good.
That's a good hoodie.
And just a pull over one.
You know, come on.
Dave.
Yeah.
It's something.
It's not nothing.
Nothing.
Nonetheless, it's all made in America.
And there is this little stylish twist.
If you're there, then notice.
If you care to notice.
It has some fashion style.
It's baked in there.
If you don't notice, you don't notice.
Cause you, you ever wore the, you wore the hoodie, right?
Functional.
Yeah.
I'm not used to 19 degrees.
Like it wasn't Utah.
Yeah, you weren't used to that.
I don't think you ever been in 19.
I was, but I had that hoodie on.
Help.
You guys had these big ass cortex jackets.
You know what?
You need to play well.
Nonetheless, all the stuff on origin main.com is made in America from season.
The cotton all the way to be final garment you wearing.
Yeah.
Just good one.
Check out the stuff on there.
Also, in your fitness routines, if you want to expand out of like just basic.
Okay, bench squat, burpees, dead lifts.
What a basic one.
Yeah, you want to expand.
Of course.
If you want to expand, do some like cool interest things stuff on it.com slash
jockel go there.
They got some cool fitness gear kettlebells, which are, they got all the kettlebells,
including the artistic ones.
Those are cool.
But I think those are all the ones I have just artistic ones.
Jerk.
Mix it funer.
Put the little twist on it and you can mix up your workout as far as creativity,
which keeps it fun.
For some people not jockel.
Some people though, if you vary the workout like new movements, functional movements,
if you will, you're more likely to stick with it.
Stay on the pattern.
Make the pattern jibble sometimes.
You'll just neglect the enjoyability of your workout.
If you want, on it.com slash jockel, really good fitness gear on there.
Check it out.
See what you like and get something also.
When you are buying the book, recollections of riflemenhairs.
I'm going to make it easy for you.
We have made it easy for you.
Go on the website jockelpodcast.com.
On the top, man uses books from episodes.
Boom.
There's a list of all the books by episode.
Click through there to get it.
It takes an Amazon.
And boom, good way to support.
If you want to do some other shopping while you're on there, like what?
Modern Morris.
Golf clubs.
Podcast equipment.
Recently a lot of people have been hitting me up.
Same, hey, I'm going to start a podcast.
What's the equipment?
You know, I should get.
They asked me that too.
Yeah, I just talked.
You press record.
Yes.
And I got the equipment.
So I have that knowledge.
Excited about that, are we?
So hey, having knowledge is better than not having the knowledge in whatever regard.
Nonetheless, if you're going to buy podcasts equipment, carry on.
Do that stuff.
But yeah, click through this.
Good way to support.
Also, subscribe to the podcast if you haven't already on Stitcher.
I, too, and obviously Google Play Spotify confirmed.
It seems weird that I didn't know that for sure.
It seems real weird.
Here's the thing.
So many things.
Not that weird.
We need to talk about it for eight minutes.
I was saying this is.
I guess, yeah, you know what, you're right.
It's just me expressing myself.
Look, all you got to know Spotify confirmed.
Two because out there confirmed it to me.
Yeah.
That's really the good thing about people interacting.
Yes.
It is.
You learn a lot about yourself in your own situation.
They know things that you don't know.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
You know things that I don't know.
Because they're detached.
And they have different expertise, by the way.
In a lot of ways.
Most ways.
Anyway, subscribe.
If you haven't already, also subscribe on YouTube.
There's excerpts on there.
If you don't want to list, or if you don't want to,
necessarily watch the whole episode video version of this podcast.
You can just get little excerpts.
They can share watch or even come back to.
That's a big one.
Yeah.
We've put out so much that it's too much.
People can't absorb it all the first time around.
Yeah.
Wait, what do you mean?
Like the whole episode?
No, no, no.
What was on episode 63?
Right?
People would people don't remember that thing.
Maybe.
So you just like to get to you go listen.
You learn it again.
And now it's more recognizable.
Yeah.
So it's like drilling a little bit.
No, I'm going to come back.
I'm going to drill so far.
Yeah.
And something, you know how like certain things just apply to you more.
Like if you're, you're advice on, I don't know,
college that's easy when you remember about how to approach college.
Right?
Crash college or whatever.
It's going to apply to me more if I'm actually in college.
Yeah.
Let's just apply that to other things in life.
Which you can easily do.
You can.
For sure.
But that's going to apply to me directly.
We'll say.
You know, more than maybe the next guy.
So that kind of stuff where.
That one I want to remember.
Okay.
I'm going to come back to that one.
If I can constantly remind myself of the things that directly apply to me,
you can be more, it's going to be more beneficial rather than just listening to all the podcast and hoping you remember each one.
Nonetheless.
Point there is that's that's a good reason to subscribe to the YouTube channel.
So if you, in fact, if the excerpts or some excerpts resonate with you.
You got him there. You fingertips and you can share.
Also.
Jocquoise is store. It's called Jocquoise store.
Jocquoise store.com. That's the URL there.
There. That's where you can get if you want.
Sure.
Do you don't even know what URL is any more?
Of course they do.
Do you think so?
I think that's common language.
No.
Actually, no.
I think you're right.
You're actually called a website.
Website.
Yeah. The website.
What is your URL stand for?
See, well, I don't even know.
See.
You better forgot.
No, I'm actually not a tech guy.
Yeah, but you knew I was a little old man.
I knew what it meant.
I don't know what it stands for.
You know, I don't know.
Universal something?
Ask your brother.
I know.
It's probably not even universal.
J-trolls.
Nonetheless, it's Jocquoise.
The website is jocquoisestore.com.
I know.
Not that creative.
But, easy to remember.
That's where you can get the shirts.
Hoodies, rashguards, compression, rashguards, if you will.
We're very sectivities where you maintain your range of motion.
J-tjutsu specifically in my opinion.
Hoodies on their hoodies.
All the hoodies.
They're the same design, but though they're the heavy ones.
People ask me and ask me, like, are these the heavy ones?
Or where's the heavy hoodies?
Well, the the heavy ones.
The heavy ones.
We saw like the non heavy ones.
We'll call them.
I thought they were heavy.
Yeah.
The first kind of iteration.
Exactly.
Where?
Those were all sold out.
They sold out last year.
Yeah.
And so I did another iteration with your request for the heavy.
There they have the one.
Actually, I think there might be some industrial heavier ones.
Maybe.
No, because I think that was.
Then yeah, I don't know.
I forget nonetheless.
These are the heavy ones.
Confirm, double confirm.
Also, so women's stuff on there.
I think I'm going to add a few things before Christmas on the store.
That'd be good.
So if you want to keep your eyes on that, that's a good way to support.
If you want something, get something.
Check them out.
Also, psychological warfare.
If you know what that is, I'm telling you it's an album with tracks.
Jockel talking on these tracks.
Basically, you listen to them when you are on the path.
We'll say on the path.
And you get moments of weakness.
Days of weakness.
You're not feeling like it.
You know how you always talk about it.
It doesn't matter if you feel like it or not.
You just do it.
Yeah.
Okay.
And I respect that.
And that's where we all want to be.
We all want to be there.
But for some of us, it's not like that.
You're a separate set of the time.
Sometimes when you really don't feel like it.
Sometimes when I really don't feel like it.
I just don't do it, man.
Sometimes they're going to be honest.
We'll put on psychological warfare and you'll do it.
Yes.
It's like a spot.
You know, especially a spot.
This is where it's like a no brainer.
Really easy.
When you're like contemplating.
I could just do this tomorrow, right?
And you start making deals with yourself.
You ever do that?
No deals with myself.
No deals with the weak part of it.
It's like you don't.
It's a straight up.
Jockel.
No deals.
Like I don't feel like it.
I feel like it.
Whatever.
That makes me angry.
I get pissed at myself.
If I start leaning towards.
Like, maybe I just want to do anything.
No, oh, really.
Really.
How is that?
That's how.
Okay.
Cool.
Wanna go smash?
You know, it's real funny.
I would.
That doesn't surprise.
I'm not going to be like, I'm going to be like,
I'm going to be like, I don't know if we can kind of do that.
Then you get this sort of look.
This kind of way about you kind of like.
So wait.
That's how it's.
I'm going to be going on vacation.
And he's going to be gone for a couple weeks.
And I've been real busy with all kinds of stuff.
And we were talking about if we'd be able to actually get all these podcasts done.
And I didn't think we could do it.
And so I said, hey, I got you know, we're just going to have to take, you know, no, no podcast for a few weeks.
And then then I said, actually, like a day went by.
And I said, I said, I said, echo a text that said, actually, we're going to do it.
Yeah.
And we're going to record all the podcasts.
I'm going to prep for them all.
We're going to have an all-nighter.
And we'll just get it done.
Bring some red bull and get some.
Bring some joc a white tea.
Yeah.
Well, what was interesting about that is when you said that,
you had this kind of tone of like dang, like,
term it like we got to take a break.
We got to take a break after two years, by the way,
every single week, by the way.
We got to take a break.
That's what you said.
Yeah.
And right when I was like, cool, I dig it.
No, I mean, I'm not saying good.
I'm saying cool.
I totally understand.
And you know what that makes sense.
HBO.
Big company.
Takes huge breaks.
Everybody takes huge breaks.
Yeah.
A pair.
And you're over here two years in no breaks, no breaks, no matter what.
Okay.
So they'll come a time when we are forced to for some reason.
Yeah.
That's kind of part of the point.
Right?
So I'm like cool.
I dig it.
I totally understand.
Jocco.
And when I said that, that's one of your face kind of shifted,
like kind of you went into your own world.
Like did I just say that?
Like it's almost like you sort of got mad.
Russel.
I was like, oh, we're not taking a break.
I know Jocco's gonna come back.
Nonetheless, and I'm sure that'll, okay.
So I dig it.
But back to psychological warfare.
If you need a spot or even want a spot with those times that you're like,
maybe I'll skip the work.
Maybe I'll slip in the dive.
I mean, just listen to any track.
And the track is labeled, you know, where.
If you can skip on the diet, it's like sugar coated like weight.
What is it?
Sugar coated like.
But it's something something's sugar coated like sugar coated like.
It's just sugar coated like.
Yeah.
So you listen to that.
And then what's good is it's not some inspirational.
And you can do it.
It's not that it's like, it's pragmatic.
I hear to do that.
Well, here's the thing though.
You, but just by nature, you're tone of voice kind of kind of like,
by happens, stands inserts that concept in it.
So it's kind of a double, double thing.
It turns out, but primarily it's just a pragmatic thing.
Think about think about this.
Logical stuff.
And then at the end of the track, you kind of conclude that,
Oh yeah.
It's going to get after it.
Yeah, exactly right.
That's what psychological warfare is.
It is on iTunes.
Amazon music.
Google play.
Whatever you can get,
and be three.
True story.
A bit of support.
Also, you get Jocquite and if you're having trouble dead lifting less than 8,000 pounds,
if you get Jocquite T, that will be solved immediately.
And your deadlift will then be 8,000 pounds,
including Jordan B. Peterson, who can now deadlift 8,000 pounds.
He broke through his 7,000 pounds.
Yeah.
Cappereeer.
Buryer.
Bucks.
I got some books.
Way the warrior kid.
Number one.
Don't let your kid be a winpy kid.
Why would you do that?
Why would you let your neighbors kid be a winpy kid?
Get him on the path.
Way the warrior kid path.
Stronger.
Faster.
smarter.
Better.
Get some extreme ownership.
The new addition is out and thanks to you all because we added questions.
Your questions from this podcast into an appendix inside.
Not every question, but a bunch of them.
A good amount.
So they're in there.
There's also new forward and some new color pictures.
Color pictures.
Interesting.
Yeah.
Because I don't like color pictures.
I said no.
That caught on me.
They said, well, this is more premium.
I said, no, black and white is premium.
It's a gift.
So anyways, if you want to see what I look like in color, then you can get the book.
But to offset that, I said, okay, fine.
You want to put color pictures in there.
Make the whole book black.
So that's what they did.
And that was that.
And speaking of black also.
The disponibles freedom field manual is available.
And I told you about that tagline that the publisher wanted to have like,
the, this book is a superb gift for holiday season.
And I told them no.
The tagline is there's no better gift than discipline.
That's the truth.
You know, it's actually true.
If you could give someone the gift of discipline, would you not be giving them the best gift in life?
Yes.
Now you can actually give them the gift of discipline equals freedom field manual.
So you can do that.
Now this is important because people keep asking me the field manual.
Audio version.
Dispening goes for you and field manual is it is also on iTunes.
Amazon use a Google play other MP3 platforms.
It's available right now.
It is not on audible.
Audible is not with tracks.
We wanted an album with tracks.
So why we did it this way.
For something on top of the books and the podcast, if you need leadership training and execution at your business or with.
Your team, you can contact our leadership consultant company.
To me, it's JP D'Neill,
LifeBabbin, Dave Burke,
info at echelonfront.com.
And if you have questions for us or you have answers for us.
A couple questions I asked today.
You can communicate with us on the interwebs on Twitter, on Instagram, and on the Facebook.
Echo is at echelonfront.
I am at Jocca Willink and to the service men and women out there right now holding the line,
slogging through the mud and the heat and the danger and the fear.
Thank you for defending us and our freedoms and to the police law enforcement firefighters,
paramedics, other first responders, thanks for living the life that you live, which allows us to live the life we live.
And to everyone else, that's listening.
Just remember that you might not be wearing a cape.
You might not have any magic powers, but you have the ultimate power.
And that is human will.
The power to march to fight to overcome and to get after it.
So until next time, this is echo and jockel.
Out.